It's a long long warm ups, but yeah, lat
pull downs, he does high high reps of of
the opposing muscle group, which I quite
like. So, here's the conclusion. The
conclusion is the research on the topic
isn't the best because it's not doing
research on a huge population, if it's
done at all. And definitely, it's not
done on people that are lifting as much
weight as I am. So, this is standard me.
I've lost my elbow sleeves. I'm going to
use my knee sleeves. So, these are my
soft knee sleeves, and I'm going to use
them on my elbows, which is fine, but my
elbow sleeves were actually ripping away
anyway. So, I'm going to go online and
buy some sleeves. I'm not sponsored.
What a weird thing. I'm not sponsored.
You know how many people I see that are
sponsored? Maybe it's for goodlifterss
only. What's it going to take for me to
be a good lifter? Uh, anyhow, SBD elbow
sleeves. Now, I'm going to get the
standard color cuz the rest of them are
ugly. So, I've got a choice between a
$99 one and an $89
one. Which one should I get? I'm going
to get the $99 one. What a decision.
Okay, so you ready? Let's go. 99. Maybe
they're thicker than the new ones. I'd
say I'm a large. Would you say I'm
large, Musty? Honestly, like, do you
think I'm large or medium?
Yeah, quite large. Okay. All right. I'm
going to say large. I
have, you know, I don't want to say it's
a shopping addiction.
But like I'm pretty happy with these
things. Ready? Add to cart. So good. And
then I'm going to go to my cart. I think
I've only got one thing. Uh delivery and
checkout. Watch this. Usually usually
it's good. I just go like this. Like
this is dangerous. Apple Pay. Express
checkout. Are you looking at my pin? And
I have a new pair of elbow sleeves
coming that I had to pay for. And all of
these people were just getting for free
cuz they were sponsored. And I'm not
sponsored anyway. Why would I want free
stuff?
But it's better. I'll tell you why it's
better. Because like honestly, you know
that if I wear something, it's because
it's actually good, right? I wear all
sorts. And if you're sponsored, I'd only
have to wear those things. And I'll tell
you now, I don't want to wear the SPD
belt cuz they suck. They do. Pioneer is
the best. That's why you're not
sponsored. That's why because I say all
these places suck. But hey, bro, if I
say your stuff is good, like I just
bought SPD sleeves and I've got SPD knee
sleeves, which I quite like for my com
comfort sleeves. I would say that they
are the best ones, right? And elbow
sleeves, they're pretty comfortable.
Inda at the moment for the knee sleeves
and Pioneer for the belt. Like I kind of
chop and change between different
sleeves. I never chop and change between
the belts.
Pioneer, you know, hats off to Pioneer.
They have the best belts. Um, they have
the best belts. Custom leather and and
they, you know, they make it, you know,
Australian Strength Coach. Black on
black, man. That's called murdered out.
Best lever. Yeah. So, the other brands,
they just straight out. I don't want to
say they're not as good. They just
straight out
[Applause]
suck. They I'm going to get hated. Yeah.
This guy wants sponsors. No, I don't
want sponsors. Gangster raps. So, look
at me for Mr. Mix and Match. Gangster
raps because they're my favorite ones,
right? So, unfortunately, there's not
one company that does it all for me.
That's why they don't sponsor me.
Anyway, whether equipment is good or
not, you go to you don't go to the
people that are sponsored. No, you
don't. You go to the people
that have to pay like everyone else.
Okay, so this is me with elbow sleeves.
These are my makeshift elbow sleeves.
They're knee sleeves. Is it going to
help me? I don't know. I hope so. I
really do. You know why? Because it's my
bench press day after squat day. So on
Wednesday, so today's Friday, on
Wednesday, I squatted 270 kg for a
double. And I just did one set so that
it was like a little bit of a D lo
because tomorrow I want to do heavy
deadlifts. My strategy for elbow pain,
penis elbow. You remember me talking
about it, right? My strategy, it goes
heavy squats, day off, non-negotiable,
and then it's light bench press. So
that's today. Today's light bench press,
anticipating that my arms are going to
be sore. What am I doing for my light
bench press day? Have you been
following? Today's spotto press with a
pause. So it has been confirmed. So the
way that you see people do a spotto
press is with a pause. So I just say
that's what a spotto press is. But
technically the person who was named
after Eric Spotto didn't pause. He just
used to bench press and not touch his
chest. So technically if it came from
him it's not a pause. But I do and
paused. So whenever I do a spot press
it's paused. I'm doing 3x3. Today I'm
due for 175 kg for three sets of three
paused spotto press. And I think it's
pretty comfortable. I did 190 kg for two
sets of three on my heavy bench press
day which was on Monday. So that's the
start of the week. Today's Friday, that
was Monday. Do you know what I'm saying?
So 190 for three, but now I'm doing a
spotto pause. It's heavier. Well, it's
not heavy. It's harder. So 175. I think
it'll be about right. Three sets of
three. Voss
water.
See? See? Why don't Vos water for me?
You know why? Cuz I don't even drink
Voss. I drink the tap water. I pour it
out. I pour it out and drink. This is
filtered water. And then check this out.
Himalayan
salt.
Rubbish. This is Murray River salt from
Australia. So Himalayan salt. People
say, "Oh, pink salt. It's Himalayan. All
this XY Z." No, it's terrible. Not
measuring it this time. Made in China.
No, I know how much this is. It's like
It's just a free pour. It's just It's
just salt at the end of the day. But
Himalayan salt sounds exotic, but it's
rubbish. But I'll have it if there's
nothing else. I don't have to do 80
turns. That's why it's rubbish as well,
cuz I have to turn it and not much comes
out. I just
go, "Okay, so this is my workout fuel
for the day. Um, because I don't have
coffee. Someone hasn't offered me a
chocolate coffee yet." That's what my MS
does. She's like, "Do you want me to get
you a coffee?" I'm like, "Yeah." And
then she just ignores me. So, we'll see
if she brings one later on. Damn it.
Anyway, I don't want to ask her again.
So, let's do this, right? Let's go. Game
face. What's my warm up? Do you know? Of
course you know. It's dumbbell press and
I'm going to do dumbbells up until So,
175. My first weight today on the
dumbbells. No, no, on the barbell. So,
just have a look at how I set this up.
Right. So, 175. Do you know what that's
going to look like? You should by now.
It has to look the part. So, 175. The
best plate configuration is three reds.
No greens, bro. No greens, just three
reds and this clip. So whenever I finish
on a on a five, so if it's 170, it's
just three reds and a plastic clip. But
it's 175. So it's three reds and the
metal clip, which is two and a half each
side. So that's 75 is going to be my
first weight. And therefore, my dumbbell
warm up. I'm going to warm
up to what is it? 37 1/2 kg will be my
last set. So that's what I'll do. I'll
go 17 1/2 for a bunch, then 27 1/2 for a
bunch, then 37 1/2 for a bunch, and then
I'm ready. 17 and 1/2. Where are you?
Did you count
12? That was 20, bro.
Look at this guy. You're ripping me off,
man. And
then I do a lat pull down. I don't know
the weight of that. It's something
light just to get the shoulders moving.
Something that I learned from Matt
winning which I quite like is on
whatever day you you're working, warm up
the opposing muscle groups with really
really high reps. So on a pushing day,
do heaps and heaps and heaps of rows or
pull downs. So Matt Wing does he's known
for really long warm-ups
and his would be a lot longer than mine.
I've seen him do, you know, like 100
kilogram bench press for like 100 reps,
not straight, but before his session.
So, long long warm-ups. But yeah, lat
pull downs, he does high high reps of of
the opposing muscle group, which I quite
like. And then the research on warm-ups,
well, don't get me started. You may as
well get me started because I'll talk
about it. A lot of the research
nowadays, a lot of the authorities in
the space in inverted commas, the
authorities, they like to [__] on other
people's training modalities. So they
say people who have really long
extensive warm-ups are wasting time and
they're, you know, they speak negatively
about it. And I'll be honest with you,
I'm 43 years old. Matt Wenning is in his
40s as well and he can bench press over
500 lb still. Me not quite. Maybe I'll
get there. I've done over 500 lb, which
is 227. My goal is to get back to 220.
I'm also a bit lighter than Matt. I'm
100 kg. He's a bit heavier. Um, but
something happens when you get older,
right? Like when I used to so many times
when I was in my 20s and 30s, I'd be
able to go straight up to a barbell. I
used to do that for seminars in my in my
early 30s. I'd have 140 kgs on the
barbell. That's three blues. And I', you
know, cold. I used to I'm a showoff and
talk about demos and I'm talking talking
then I'd find a weight that I'd find a
barbell that has three plates on and I'd
come on cold and just unrackck it and
start benching cuz that's easier.
Now, if I did that today, I'd probably
tear my peg. And that would be very
silly, wouldn't it? Right? But what's
the difference? I'll tell you the
difference is like 10 years, man. So,
nowadays, I like to spend time with my
warm-ups and I speak to people in
their 40s and 50s who like to train and
they could attest to the same thing and
say, "I don't like to just come in cold
and start lifting. I like to spend time
warming up." And it's like, oh, what a
surprise. What a surprise that it feels
nicer to warm up as you get older. And
then I train with a lot of young people,
which I had Kyle Bruce and his Mrs. Izzy
Lorenzi, their weightlifters. They came
in and and I knew it. I knew it. They
came in and they warmed up really,
really quickly, got to their top sets,
and those guys are young,
man. And that's what happened. So, when
people say, "Here's the research on
warm-ups." I don't think there's very
conclusive research on this topic, you
know, and if there is, it's not
performed on a large demographic of
people. Usually, the studies are
performed on, you know, whoever they can
get their hands on, which is, you know,
not advanced lifters. Um, I don't know
how many studies are done on people that
are benching 500 lb. I would go as far
as to say there are
none. Right? So, a lot of the times, you
know, when someone like Matt Winning
suggests taking time with your warm-ups,
there's two ways of thinking of it. One
way is to
say, could it be harmful if I took that
advice? Cuz if it is, I'd probably say,
let's take that with caution. But then
you think, warm up for a longer period
of time. Is that harmful? Huh? Let me
think. You know, obviously not, right?
And then the next thing, does it help
you get in your, you know, position, get
ready for your session, whether it's
mental process or physically, whether
you need to actually spend the time to
warm up. For me, the answer is
absolutely. So, here's the conclusion.
The conclusion is the research on the
topic isn't the best because it's not
doing research on a huge population, if
it's done at all. And definitely, it's
not done on people that are lifting as
much weight as I am. So, my answer to
the question, how much time should you
spend warming up? Everyone is different.
You get good at whatever you practice.
So, some people take quick warm-ups and
that's fantastic. Some people spend a
little bit more time, like myself, and
that's what has allowed me to progress
in my strength up until today, which is,
you know, 43 years old and I'm
still pretty
strong. I'm above average
strong by a fair bit. That's enough talk
of warm-ups because that's 37 and a half
and that's my last warm up. We start on
75 kg.
Set number one. I'm feeling warm and all
of that good stuff. And we're going to
go up in 25 kg increments.
Yeah.
Yeah, it's it's a mentoring as well.
So,
2 and a half kilogram jumps.
So, it goes 75 sorry 25 kg
7500 125 150 175. These are really
cruisy days, you know, compared to my
squats when I have to go like it's not
that I have to like I'm going heavy on
bench as well, but it's just not as
stressful if you know, you know, kind of
thing. You don't need of course you want
to be focused and I will be focused for
my top sets, but it's just not the same
like loading your body for a heavy squat
and deadlift. If you're not mentally
prepared, it just feels heavy and it
feels terrible. Whereas a bench
press, it's just a cruisy day. They're a
little bit loose cuz they're a knee
sleeve, but they're nice and warm. So
far, I don't feel discomfort from my
squat session. You know, it's so funny
in Australia when we talk about June, we
say June. When you guys talk about June,
you say summer, right? So, when I hear
people say, "Oh, we're going to wait
till the summer to do this." And I'm
thinking, damn, we got to wait till
November cuz that's summer in Australia.
They'll call summer June or the middle
of the year. For us, that's winter. And
I don't know why people in the whole
world don't just say June. So that's
right, it's winter now. So outside
today, uh, it's been a bit of a shitty
day. The place where I normally go for
my breakfast is all flooded on the roads
and where I'd normally park my car, like
wherever on the whole street was just in
floods. So, if I wanted to get out and
eat, I had to open up the door and stand
in a puddle of water. So, I didn't have
my normal breakfast today.
Still ate. It's very wet today. It's
very wet and sticky
and miserable,
but that's okay.
All right. Next up, 100 kg. You want to
talk some technique? You know, I learned
this from Krill Sachev. I had a few
questions about bench pressing today,
and I'm going to answer those. So, I do
a mentorship call for my uh mentorship
group a few times a week, but this is my
Q&A session. And the questions that were
asked, one of them was, "How wide should
you go with a wide grip? Is it dependent
on your arm length? Is it dependent on
your comfort or your mobility?" In my
opinion, it's not just mobility or arm
length or comfort. Mobility matters, but
it's also strength in that position. So,
whenever I'm introducing someone to a
wide grip bench press, if you look at
me, I go maximum legal width in a
powerlifting competition, which is index
finger on the outer ring of a
powerlifting bar. Um, and I say to have
the mobility to do that, you need to be
able to arch your upper back and pull
your shoulders back and down. If you if
you lack mobility to arch, don't go
wide. That's where you get a lot of
discomfort and pain in your shoulders
and and you know, your pecs. But if you
have the mobility and can achieve that
position and you're a new bench presser,
if you're a new lifter, you may not have
the strength, it's a pretty aggressive
position. So what's aggressive? It means
when the bar is on your chest, the pec
is in the fully lengthened position.
It's the most stretched position. And
muscles are actually quite weak when
they're fully stretched. The strongest
contractile position of a muscle is when
it's in its mid-range. So fully
stretched, fully contracted, mid-range.
So this is why we have techniques like
tucking the elbows a little bit. If you
flare the elbows, it creates more of a
stretch, which could be great for doing,
you know, bodybuilding with high reps
and light loads. But when you're doing a
one rep max, flared elbows and that full
stretch, it can be problematic. So wide
grip for a bench press isn't just about
mobility and comfort. It's about your
strength in that position as well. I
should say mobility, comfort, and bone
length. So it's nothing to do with bone
lengths either. I know some people do
measurements with, you know, their their
shoulder width and and all of these
equations. No, if you lack the strength
to support that wide grip. Same applies
for wide stance squats and wide stance
deadlifts. Some people may have the
mobility to stand wide with a deadlift.
But then when you start loading it with
a really, really heavy weight, you're
not strong in that position. And this is
where you can have, you know, adductor
strains or tears. And this is why, you
know, wide grip kind of depends. If
you're trying a wide grip for the first
time, my recommendation, if you've got
the mobility, see that outer ring on
that bar? Start with your pinky there.
That's that could be a wide grip for
you. For me, you know, my first
competition, I was pinky on the line and
then gradually over the years, I was
able to slowly slowly, you know, phase
by phase bring it out so that I can be
at the wide grip now. So that's me now.
That's wide grip and it's comfortable.
And the only reason it's comfortable is
cuz I've been doing it for many years
and I've strengthened my pecs in this
position. And I have the coordination
and mobility to perform the arch and
position my shoulders where I tell you
to do it, which is back and down towards
your back pockets. So that's my wide
grip.
Okay, perfect. And that's why we have
those options because we know that
obviously Sebastian is not just about
What was the other point? The other
question that I was asked this morning
about bench press. So it was a grip
position. Oh, bar path. M. So the next
one is about bar path. So the question
that was asked, which is quite
interesting, something I didn't know so
much about, but I thought that it wasn't
the case. So the question was framed
like this. When you when you teach a bar
path, do you teach like Bill Casmire who
teaches, you know, bring the bar down to
your sternum and back towards the eyes
or are you more like Westside barbell
who teaches a more straight bar path?
And my answer was I didn't think that
Westside barbell taught the straight bar
path. I thought they were advocates of
there's a saying in powerlifting which
is down to your dick and up to your
eyes. So that's exaggerated. Of course,
you're not going to bring the bar all
the way like your dick sits there and
your eyes are here. So, you're not going
to travel all the way down to your dick
and up to your eyes, you know, down this
direction. So, queuing, I learned this
from Jordan Shallows. Queuing is about
the journey, not the destination. So, of
course, you know, it's down to your dick
is that means it's that general
direction. You don't up to your eyes.
It's that general direction. But do not
hold it above your eyes. Objectively,
your start position for the bench press
needs to be above the shoulders. So look
at where I'm standing, right? I'm
stacked. My head is in line with my my
whole body is aligned. My rib cage, my
hips, my knees, all aligned with the
center of my base of support, which is
my midoot, right? So I can't I don't
need to measure it. I've just been
standing for my whole life and I know
how to stand efficiently now. Same
applies with a barbell in in the
unrackcked position. You just want to be
locked and stacked, hand in line with
elbow, in line with shoulders. So not
above your eyes. If you're above your
eyes, it's wrong. usually say, "Beware
of the man who speaks in absolutes."
When people say yes, no, like just
absolutely it's wrong. It's right. This
is the best. This is the worst. But some
things like that's just not stacked.
That's wrong. And I'll put my name to
that. So that's the start position. Hand
in line with elbow in line with
shoulder. Just like if you're standing
like this, it's wrong. Do you get it?
That's stacked. That's efficient. So
start position is here. So you don't
objectively you don't want to bench
press in line with your eyes. So the cue
towards your eyes is about the journey,
not the destination. So, it's that
general direction. The next thing we
need to think about, if it's a straight
bar path, to have a straight bar path,
so that's straight up and down, you need
perfectly flared elbows. And I'm telling
you, in powerlifting competition, it's
kind of recommend that you don't have
flared elbows because that's positioning
the pecs in the fully stretched
position, which is not very strong,
right? So, for bodybuilding, they're not
doing heavy weights. They're doing high
reps and flared elbows. It's not really
high wrist because the weight's not
heavy enough to tear your pegs. So, I'm
not saying flared elbows are bad. It
depends. If it's high reps for
bodybuilding, it's a great exercise to
strengthen the pecs in the stretch
position. But for powerlifting, it's not
about strengthening pecs. It's about
shifting heavy loads and not injuring
yourself. So, this is why we say tuck
the elbows. There's a few other reasons
why we tuck the elbows, but one of them
is to position the pec in the mid-range.
So, that's fully
lengthened mid-range, right? So, it's
stronger and safer. So therefore, if I'm
over my shoulders and then I tuck my
elbows, where is the barbell now? It's
not over my shoulders anymore. That's my
shoulders. Now it's, you know, so
objectively it's gone from my shoulders.
There's the bar path. So it's diagonal.
Okay. So objectively, there will be some
kind of diagonal bar path. If you tuck
your elbows even slightly, there's some
type of diagonal bar path. Now, depends
how long are your arms. The longer your
arms, the more diagonal that bar path
will be. the shorter your arms and the
bigger your arch and the shorter the
range of motion, you probably won't even
see it and it'll be like, you know, like
a really short range of motion, but
it'll still be in that general
direction. So, what's my advice? My
advice is, and I think I I'm not quoting
Louis Simmons at Westside Barbell. I
didn't know that he taught that queue.
When the person asked, you know, he
teach the person asked me the question
said he teaches a straight bar path. I
don't I'm kind of like on his thought
process where I teach people think it's
a straight bar path and it will
naturally go where it should go. In my
experience, when people think too much
about the bar path needs to be down to
your dick and up to your eyes, that's
where I see people with these big
exaggerated diagonal bar paths and it's
just wrong. So that's when they end up
with a barbell over their eyes. It's
just wrong and they end up with the
hands too far down. Okay? So you put
yourself in the right position and you
just think down and up and then
naturally it should take its course to
you know slightly over your stern like
in line with your sternum to over your
shoulders. Okay. So, we'll do some side
views where we're looking at the bar
path today. But that's kind of like an
in-depth insight into what your bar path
should be. The way you cue an individual
depends on their arm lengths and the way
that they think about the bench press.
But there's my answer is I don't teach
bar path. I don't tell someone to use a
specific bar path. I tell them to press
naturally, lower it to wherever on their
body, their sternum or whatever it might
be. It's case by case. And bring it up
to in line with their shoulders.
Whatever the bar path that creates,
that's the bar path you should use.
And then you also have access to our
nutritionist.
So either for your own or if you need
help on your
Oh man, I am tired.
My left pec feels tight, which is
strange.
That's from our last session.
It's been my right shoulder that has
been hurting. Usually feeling all the
tension.
But yeah. Yeah. This is why I won't be
going heavy today. Like I am beaten
up. I got to reassess this as well. So
you get to a point where you this is my
light session and then next week the
goal is 180 for a triple. That's meant
to be my light session and then what's
the progression next phase? More than
180. So now it's no longer light, right?
So that's where I need to
reconsider what my light day is going to
be and think of, you know, different rep
ranges, probably higher rep ranges. And
this is where it does get tricky when it
comes to, if you understand
periodization, the idea of periodization
is thinking about working on one
physical quality at a time. Um, you
know, when you're doing things like, you
know, building muscle and building
strength at the same time, they're kind
of conflicting cuz the best way to build
muscle is high volume. The best way to
build strength is lower volume and high
loads. And the reason why it's not high
volume for muscle building is because
the volume contributes to fatigue. And
so they're kind of somewhat
conflicting. I mean, they complement
each other in many ways as well. So it's
a funny topic, but either way, something
that matters the most is safety. And
when you bench press, so like I'll get
to a point where I'm, you know, my heavy
days are every heavy day is over 200 kg.
Right now I'm not there, but you know,
that's what I was doing back in the day
when I was benching, you know, 230, 240
in competition. every session was over
200 kg. You can't bench press. Well, for
me anyway, I wasn't able to bench press
200 kg two times per week. It's just too
heavy, too much for my body to be able
to recover from. So, this is where this
is probably going to be the last.
There's my coffee here. The last of my
108 these these loads for my light days
cuz that's right, it's not that light.
Someone asked a question if you write
customized programs and stuff. Of
course, I write customized program. It's
what I it's what I do. I've got a bunch
of programs. One of them is my generic
programs. Um I do that with Thor
Bjönson. That's strength system online.
Uh but customized coaching is
is you know the higher ticket that's a
higher price and that's where it's
customized and yes I absolutely do.
That's what my business
is. All right. Yeah. You might as well
put a link if you want to be coached by
me. I'm pretty good at it. I get people
strong.
All right. Next up 150.
You ready, brother? Let's go. Because I
have
um for myself before working production
that's how I
feel and you are just a different coach
after that.
Have you noticed how Musi is unrackcking
now with confidence? I see he's brought
all of his skills in, you know, over the
top of the bar instead of unrackcking
here.
Yeah. So, it's making it nice for me.
You know, one comment that I saw in the
I don't know if it was YouTube or
Instagram, someone said over under grip
for the spot is the way. I disagree.
I disagree. Why do I disagree? Because
over under you might twist the bar. Why
would I want you to twist the bar when
unrackcking it to me? Why do we hold it
with an over under grip in the first
place? I'll tell you why. So that the
bar doesn't roll out of our hands,
right? So, if you just do, you know,
double overhand, the barbell will roll
out of your hands. This is why it's
difficult with the grip and doing a
mixed grip stops it from rolling. But
it's very different when you are
unrackcking a weight because the lifter
is holding the bar and that's going to
stop it rolling. So, you don't need to
worry about it not rolling. It's not
going to roll. What you need to worry
about is a nice even hand out. So,
that's why my recommendation for
handouts is symmetry, double overhand.
Another thing that I don't like is when
people unrackck with one hand. That's
cuz maybe they don't want to put their
balls in their lifter's face or whatever
it might be. It's polite, but I don't
like it for me because a lot of the
times when that happens, it's freaking
like imagine trying to stabilize a
barbell with one hand and and make sure
it's perfectly level. It's pretty
difficult to do. So, two hands, double
overhand over the top of the bar exactly
how Musty's doing it. All right, next
set is our work
set. All right.
Uh-huh.
I'm interesting.
I was expecting that to grind out or
something cuz I feel a lot of tightness
in my my shoulders and pecs from
squatting and also from Monday's heavy
bench. It's just like, oh, super
uncomfortable. So, I thought, oh, here
we go. This is going to be tough and you
never know. But then on the last rep, I
thought it was going to be a grind out,
but it's like,
well, it felt fast. Now it's time to
look back on the replay.
It looked silly. Easier.
So, I'm going to give myself um 8 to 10
minutes. And I want all of my sets to be
that clean and easy. That's good.
Yeah, I'm strong. I'm strong. Felt
really strangely easy. So, what do I
mean by strangely easy? Everything is
like painful. It's just like, you know,
I bring it down. It's like, oh no,
[Music]
easy. It's so strange. It's so strange.
Like, this
is my body adapting, right? So, if you
look back on the first week, so 160 is
my first week I did 33 and then the last
set I did five cuz it's like 160 was way
too easy. So, then we went on a bigger
jump to 170 and 170 33 I felt like the
the weight was accurate. I felt like it
was challenging. It was okay. It was
challenging and I thought, "Yeah, I
think I've got 175 the next week." Now,
when I look back at that, I look like I
had five reps of that. You know, this is
the fact of it. Humans don't progress
linearly, right? So, when people say to
people like my progression is, you know,
I tried to do 5 kg jumps and people say,
but humans don't progress linearly.
Correct? So, what I like to do is start
so conservative to allow room for a
progression regardless of whether you
have the energy to do it or not. Do you
know what I mean? So you start so light
on week one that even on even if you
have a bad week on week two you can
still go up right and then hopefully you
know your body adapts to the stimulus by
then and then you go up again on week
three you know the way that that moved
I'm very confident to get 180 next week
for a triple and I'd say that it would
even be easy but once again humans don't
progress linearly so next week could be
a shitty week and 180 could be really
really hard we do not know
shame you won't be here I don't know
what I'm going to do but guess who's
back Hey, Reese will be doing some
recording as well. Uh, and he's also
great at spotting. So, unfortunately,
he's not great at lifting at the moment
because he's coming back from his bicep
tear. But, actually, I shouldn't say
that. Like, he's last I think last week
he did 140 kg bench press for sets of
10. So, he's on his way back to recovery
and he'll probably be doing a lot of the
sessions with me. But either way, I'm
still going to be staying as frequent as
I can with these YouTube videos because
Musty is going away. That's my
videographer. How long are you going
away for, brother?
18 days. But that's okay. Yeah, because
I've got, you know, Reese is going to
help me out with with filming until
then, until you're back and with
training and, you know, it's hard to
find good training partners. Like, look
at this. I've got to get my videographer
to be my, you know, my expert unwraer,
which is fantastic cuz he is, but now
he's going. You know what I mean? Like,
that's where lifting can be like one of
those sports. It's like you're not
guaranteed to have the same training
partner every time. I've had so many,
obviously, I've been training for over
two decades. I've had so many sessions
where you just have to come in by
yourself and figure it out. So, I don't
know what I'll be doing on those days. I
don't think it's safe for me now to be
unrackcking these weights by myself. I
don't think I will.
Um, so yeah, definitely if you weren't
here, I wouldn't do this 175. I used to
be able to I used to like my first
competition where I bench pressed 230, I
unracked it myself. Yeah. And and
because no one knew how to unrackck it
well. And then just as I progressed as a
lifter, you know, refined my technique,
it was like there's no way I'm in the
right position when I'm doing that. And
it was dangerous. You take yourself out
of position. Anyhow, so I don't do any
more heavy lifting without a training
partner. How heavy will I go? Maybe 160.
Bye-bye. Right. Well, it is heavy. It's
heavy for me. You know, that's 80% of of
200. So, so when it comes to strength
training, a lot of the research says,
you know, especially with the, you know,
intermediate and above, intermediate,
advanced, and up kind of you want to be
working with 80% of your max for it to
be like really have a good carryover to
your top end strength. So, this is why,
you know, like if all you do is, you
know, high rep stuff and and less than
80%, it doesn't have a huge carryover to
your strength. Of course, it makes you a
little bit stronger, but not the same
strength that you need. Like for me to
get to, you know, my goal is 220 kg
bench press. For me to get there, you
need to be lifting frequently over 80%
of your max. So 80% of 200 is 160.
210 168. Yeah. So it's an extra 8 kg and
then 220. So 26. So 1 uh 176 kg. So I
need to be lifting. So to get 220 when
I'm at that level like this is actually
there you go. So this is pretty much
bang on 80% of my 220. Big focus.
Let's make this easy again.
Good
one. Good set. Two done. One to go.
um discomfort
because my body's sore, but kind of felt
like easy. I like to fast
forward. All I really need to see is the
third rep, but I might as well watch it
all. It's only three
reps,
easy, easy.
Compared to the first set, it was
definitely harder, but I had more reps
in
me. Yeah, good. One set to go.
You see the line? Second rep, I push it
that way. M fine. 3x3 done. Um, this is
all learning and not everything is
perfect. My first rep took me out of
position, you know. I just was really
focusing cuz I feel a lot of tension in
my left pec. It's quite tight. So, I'm
just trying to protect it. How do you
protect your pecs? you tuck your elbows,
right? The more you flare the elbows,
the more you're targeting the pec in the
lengthen position. That's not what I
want to do. So, if you want to protect
your pecs, tuck the elbows. So, that's
what I'm really focusing on is elbow
tuck. And so, I'm bringing it down, tuck
the elbows, and then on the way up, I I
push it really really fast and it took
me slightly out of position. Anyway,
second rep, if you watch it back, I
don't know how it looks, but I could
feel I pushed it this way. So this is
where on the topic of BP, that's where
the cue of back towards me. So if I was
spotting me back then and I was grinding
out and it's pushing it this way, I'd
say back towards me, back towards me,
right? Which is up towards the eyes,
right? Because I pushed it that way and
it slowed down significantly. So that
was the second rep took too much energy
and then it made the third rep a little
bit harder. But either way, I'm
nitpicking cuz that's what I do and
that's totally fine. So that's 3x3 done.
175 time for accessories. One thing
people want to understand is when you
make these cues, yeah, it could be
centimeters if not less. That's right.
When I'm lifting really heavy, so so get
this right. The bar path for it to be
perfect and strong, it needs to be in
line with the center of base of support.
So that means like the perfect bar path.
If it's off by a millimeter at the
heaviest loads, you feel it. If it's off
by a millimeter at a really light
weight, you can't feel anything. So
that's why, you know, I feel it's a lot
harder. But then when you look back on
the video, you look at it, it's like
can't see anything. Doesn't even know
what he's talking about. But anyway,
maybe you will see. If we had a camera
exactly where you are now with a bar
path line, I promise you, you would have
seen it like that. That's what the bar
path should be. And that one would have
been right. It needs to be here. So,
it's over my shoulders. And then here on
my sternum, it went it went
wrong. That's where it needed to end up.
Anyway, all good. 175 3x3 onwards and
upwards. Time for some accessories.
What do we have in the list?
So, I want to include a new accessory
exercise where I do So, this is what I
was thinking about with my feeling on my
pecs right now, which is very tight,
especially in the bottom position. So,
so that this spotto press is very
testing. So, I'm
pausing. I'm pausing, not resting it on
my chest. I'm pausing in the most
compromising position of the lift, which
is where the pec is at the most
stretched position. So that is if you
have if you go too heavy on that, that's
where pecs can tear, right? So usually
if you injure a pec, it's typically not
because you did something wrong once.
It's an accumulation of things. So I've
been going heavy every single week and
now I'm feeling it. And this is where if
I let's just say I I attempted to go
really heavy then like that's when an
injury can occur, right? So anyway, so
on that thought, you know, coming in
feeling my pecs are just tighter than
usual. I'm going to include some flies
where I emphasize that fully stretched
position. I'm not going to go heavy.
Isn't that funny? We were just talking
about flies last week where we said a
lot of the discussion these days on
social media is saying that flies are
better than presses for pegs. And I came
back and you know in defense of the
press saying stop saying it's better.
It's not better. It's a great flies are
a great exercise. So is a press. They're
just two different things. One's
isolation and one strengthens more
muscles. That's the pressing and that's
what I always prefer to do. However, I
haven't done that full stretch position
for a long long
time you know and I hope that improves
my shoulder mobility as well. my my
chest is tight and my favorite way to
improve mobility is to strengthen those
ranges of motion rather than stretch.
Okay, so that's what I'm going to do.
Let's chill for a
bit. I'm just going to feel it. This is
me done with my session to be honest
with you. I'm beat up. My body is
smashed. And tomorrow I got to deadlift
heavy. So I'm going to be doing this is
just like rehab. I'm just going to use
this as an introduction to this
exercise. I don't know how heavy I'm
going to get. Um, that was 7 and a half.
I'm going to go to jump up by 5 kg and
just do high reps, blood flow stretch.
That's all I'm going to do. But anyway,
maybe I'll show you one top set once I
get there. It's just going to be about
practicing the movement and ingraining a
new pathway and then including it for my
next week's sessions. Anyway, my team,
stay tuned for next session. Tomorrow,
I'm going to go for a big deadlift. Are
you going to be here?
Maybe. Maybe. My guy, my guy didn't get
any love today.
didn't get any love today. He had his
back turned the whole time. He wasn't
supporting me. Maybe he's not impressed
by 175. Anyway, whatever. Better luck
next time, I guess. For me. Maybe he'll
look and pay attention and care about
me. No one cares. No one cares anyway.
You care. All right. See you
guys. I'll go heavier than this.
[Music]
see the technique that I'm
using. It's technically it's length and
partials, but that's not why I'm doing
it. So length and partials is where you
just spend time in the stretch position
and that's it. But the fact is when I do
a fly, this part here is unloaded. So
there's no point in doing it, right? So
that's the idea of this is just to build
strength and stretch the
peg. Lengthen partials for you, but not
for hypertrophy. Hey, if I build muscle
as a consequence, bonus. But the goal is
to build strength so that when I do come
to my heavy one rep maxes, it's strong
and doesn't break.
So tell me a little bit more about your
training. So you think you're a trainer
as well?